MANIFEST.in
README.md
pyproject.toml
setup.cfg
setup.py
qhub/VERSION
qhub/__init__.py
qhub/__main__.py
qhub/constants.py
qhub/deploy.py
qhub/destroy.py
qhub/initialize.py
qhub/schema.py
qhub/utils.py
qhub.egg-info/PKG-INFO
qhub.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
qhub.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
qhub.egg-info/entry_points.txt
qhub.egg-info/requires.txt
qhub.egg-info/top_level.txt
qhub/cli/__init__.py
qhub/cli/deploy.py
qhub/cli/destroy.py
qhub/cli/initialize.py
qhub/cli/render.py
qhub/cli/validate.py
qhub/provider/__init__.py
qhub/provider/git.py
qhub/provider/terraform.py
qhub/provider/cicd/github.py
qhub/provider/cloud/__init__.py
qhub/provider/cloud/amazon_web_services.py
qhub/provider/cloud/digital_ocean.py
qhub/provider/cloud/google_cloud.py
qhub/provider/dns/__init__.py
qhub/provider/dns/cloudflare.py
qhub/provider/oauth/__init__.py
qhub/provider/oauth/auth0.py
qhub/render/__init__.py
qhub/render/jinja.py
qhub/template/cookiecutter.json
qhub/template/hooks/post_gen_project.py
qhub/template/hooks/pre_gen_project.py
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.gitignore
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.github/workflows/image-pr.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.github/workflows/image.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.github/workflows/jupyterhub-pr.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.github/workflows/jupyterhub.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/.github/workflows/qhub-ops.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/Dockerfile.dask-worker
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/Dockerfile.jupyterhub
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/Dockerfile.jupyterlab
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/README.md
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/dask-worker/environment.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/dask-worker/postBuild
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/apt.txt
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/environment.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/ipython_config.py
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/labextensions.txt
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/overrides.json
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/jupyterlab/postBuild
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/scripts/install-apt.sh
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/scripts/install-conda-environment.sh
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/image/scripts/install-conda.sh
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/aws.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/dask-gateway.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/do.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/gcp.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/jupyterhub.yaml
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/kubernetes.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/locals.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/outputs.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/state.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/variables.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/infrastructure/versions.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/terraform-state/main.tf
qhub/template/{{ cookiecutter.repo_directory }}/terraform-state/versions.tf
tests/__init__.py
tests/test_init.py
tests/test_render.py
tests/test_schema.py