LICENSE
MANIFEST.in
README.md
pyproject.toml
requirements.txt
setup.cfg
setup.py
./bin/mff2json.py
./bin/mff2mfz.py
mffpy/__init__.py
mffpy/bin_files.py
mffpy/bin_writer.py
mffpy/cached_property.py
mffpy/devices.py
mffpy/dict2xml.py
mffpy/epoch.py
mffpy/mffdir.py
mffpy/raw_bin_files.py
mffpy/reader.py
mffpy/version.py
mffpy/writer.py
mffpy/xml_files.py
mffpy/zipfile.py
mffpy.egg-info/PKG-INFO
mffpy.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
mffpy.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
mffpy.egg-info/requires.txt
mffpy.egg-info/top_level.txt
mffpy/header_block/__init__.py
mffpy/header_block/header_block.py
mffpy/header_block/helpers.py
mffpy/header_block/optional_header_block.py
mffpy/resources/coordinates/Geodesic Sensor Net 128 2.1.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/Geodesic Sensor Net 256 2.1.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/Geodesic Sensor Net 64 2.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/HydroCel GSN 128 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/HydroCel GSN 256 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/HydroCel GSN 32 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/HydroCel GSN 64 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/MicroCel GSN 100 128 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/MicroCel GSN 100 256 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/MicroCel GSN 100 32 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/coordinates/MicroCel GSN 100 64 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/Amp Sample.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/Geodesic Sensor Net 128 2.1.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/Geodesic Sensor Net 256 2.1.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/Geodesic Sensor Net 64 2.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/HydroCel GSN 128 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/HydroCel GSN 256 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/HydroCel GSN 32 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/HydroCel GSN 64 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/MicroCel GSN 100 128 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/MicroCel GSN 100 256 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/MicroCel GSN 100 32 1.0.xml
mffpy/resources/sensorLayout/MicroCel GSN 100 64 1.0.xml
mffpy/tests/__init__.py
mffpy/tests/test_cached_property.py
mffpy/tests/test_devices.py
mffpy/tests/test_dict2xml.py
mffpy/tests/test_header_block.py
mffpy/tests/test_mffdir.py
mffpy/tests/test_raw_bin_files.py
mffpy/tests/test_reader.py
mffpy/tests/test_writer.py
mffpy/tests/test_xml_files.py
mffpy/tests/test_zipfile.py